
While Christmas is almost here, you still have time to pick a last-minute Christmas gift for your book-loving partners, family members, and friends. While books are the most apparent things that come to mind in this case, we suggest you get more creative and pick a book-related gift instead. Luckily, there are tons of ideas. For your convenience, we've browsed this year's top book-related gift offers across various online shops and have selected the most interesting ones. Let's take a look at what we've found for you!
100 Books Scratch Off Poster
This is a fantastic gift idea for those of your friends who love setting big goals (and tracking them). 100 book scratch-off poster is just ideal for keeping track of reading progress. This poster is fun to use, just like an advent calendar (only for grown-ups). Once you finish the first book, scratch off the next box and see what's next on the agenda. Look for the poster online.
The Reading Journal
The reading journal is not a new idea, but it's also something your strategic friends will definitely appreciate. We are positive that you can find an elegant journal pretty much anywhere, even in your local bookstore or convenience store. However, we suggest you check a few more artistic venues and pick something really beautiful.
“Literature of the World” Map
Do your friends like maps? Good. Do they also like books? Great, then a "Literature of the World" map will be a perfect combo and a perfect gift for them. With books for each location, it's a tool your friends will be able to use for traveling without leaving home—which is really cool sometimes, don't you think?
First-Edition Book Cover Art Print
You can get creative and give your art-loving friends a unique gift: a first-edition book cover art print. If you are lucky enough to have an old first edition with a dust cover that you can frame, by all means, go DIY. If not, there are plenty of places where you can make a print. Just pick your friend’s favorite book cover, find what its first-edition cover looked like, print it, and frame it. Voila!
A Reader’s Sweatshirt
Have friends who would die for another sweatshirt? We have a gift idea for them, too—a reader's sweatshirt with a decal of their favorite book cover. Or maybe a t-shirt. Yet, as it's Christmas time—the time of cozy cuddles, tea, candles, and blankets, we insist on a sweatshirt.
Bookweight
You may have never thought about it, but a beautiful bookweight can be both a tool to keep the lift on the page and off your hands and an elegant interior decoration. From weighted leather bookmarks to bookweight crystal balls, there are plenty of options to choose from. We suggest looking for something really unusual to surprise your friends.
The World of Jane Austen Puzzle
Have Jane Austen fans among your friends and family? We have a great gift idea for them—a 1,000-piece puzzle where you have to piece together the world of Jane Austen! If your friends are jigsaw fans, it's a double catch that will please them even more. Tell them that Elizabeth Bennet is lurking somewhere near Pemberley!
Personalized Book Tote
Do your friends love taking their books to cafes? Maybe they need a tote to carry their books? It's your chance to give them a perfect gift—a personalized canvas bag. By personalized, we mean pretty much anything—from making a print of their names to book cover decals. We are positive that the bag will also serve them well by being a keeper for groceries and other essentials.
Library Card Coasters
Do your friends love decorating the table with coasters and find old libraries adorable? We have an idea of how to please them. Give them charming coasters with old library card images this Christmas. For one thing, it's quite an unconventional gift; for another, coasters are pretty useful at home—no coffee spots on the surfaces, right?
Book Quote Pencils
We also have an idea for your well-read friends! How about a set of book quote pencils? There are plenty of quiet options available; try Little Women, for example. Each pencil has a quote from one of the characters. How cool is that?! The pencils are elegant, so they'll make a great gift even for the most demanding individuals.

A Book: The Book Lover's Cookbook
Finally, you can still give your near-and-dear a book. For instance, The Book Lover's Cookbook by Shaunda Kennedy Wenger and Janet Jensen. Why this one? It's an unconventional cookbook with recipes for some of literature's most memorable meals. Your friends can try cooking Carrot Pudding from Charles Dickens's A Christmas Carol or C.S. Lewis's Turkish Delight from The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe, for example. 

You can get the book on Amazon, in your local bookstores, and on bookselling platforms. You can also buy this and other great books as Christmas gifts for your friends and family on BooksRun. Not only it's a place to buy books, but you can also sell books and textbooks and rent textbooks for your studies.

We hope that you'll have great Christmas celebrations and fantastic holidays. We also hope that you'll find inspiration in our ideas and that your book-loving friends and family will be delighted with their gifts!

